---
layout: post
title:  "Hackathon 2015"
date:   2015-11-30 00:00:00
author: Omar Khudeira
image:  "hackathon-2015.jpg"
---
It's been an eventful year for Pangea and the engineering team. Our beta launch in November 2014 paved the way for a number of major feature releases over the course of 2015. 

We launched our referral program, migrated our users to phone number login, moved to a new card processor, then moved to another card processor when that one [shut down](http://blog.balancedpayments.com/shutting-down/), expanded our platform's reach to additional countries (Guatemala, Dominican Republic, Colombia, and El Salvador), and piloted a cash-in product. The engineering team also grew from a few engineers to nine strong--and [we're still hiring](http://careers.stackoverflow.com/company/pangea-universal-holdings)! 

It's safe to say we've been busy.

We're fortunate to be part of a company that values collaboration and provides creative space that allows us to execute at breakneck speeds. It's always important to take a step back and examine what we've accomplished in such a short amount of time. We're proud to see the software we've built [empower](http://blog.gopangea.com/thanks-to-pangea-juan-mena-no-longer-has-to-stress) those who [need it most](http://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2014/aug/18/global-remittance-industry-choking-billions-developing-world).

As 2015 comes to a close, we decided to take another step back and look for ways to improve our tech stack, process, and product. As any engineer can attest, technical debt is painful to accrue and a pleasure to pay off.

We went off-site and scheduled a two day hackathon. Our objective for the hackathon was simple:

> Work on anything that will make Pangea better.

The week prior to the hackathon, we sat down as a team and discussed what everyone wanted to work on. We gave each other feedback to ensure all tasks aligned with the direction of the product.

The final tasks could be categorized as:

- Paying off technical debt.
- Fixing annoying bugs.
- Building small but awesome features.
- Documenting functions of the system.

After the two days, we accomplished the following:

- General
    - Created the Pangea engineering blog.
    - Open sourced our [throttling library](https://github.com/gopangea/BrakePedal) (in use by our production systems).
    - Started an internal product wiki/knowledge base.
- Platform
    - Fixed a number of bugs that required manual engineering intervention.
    - Optimized a number of API calls making our apps even more delightful to use.
    - Revamped our database migration process to make spinning up new environments simpler.
- iOS
    - Optimized app file size to reduce the time it takes to download our app.
    - Added our app to [Spotlight indexing](https://developer.apple.com/library/prerelease/ios/documentation/General/Conceptual/AppSearch/).
    - Added [Uncrustify](https://github.com/bengardner/uncrustify) to the build pipeline to prettify the code.
- Web App
    - Modified our deployment process to ensure our CDN cache is never a problem for newly deployed code.
    - Created a plan to remove AngularJS from our code base.
- Android
    - Nada! Shiva, our Android engineer, was stranded in the New Dehli airport coming back from his Diwali vacation and missed the hackathon &#128522;.

The hackathon was a success because everything we accomplished made our product better for the customer. As the 2015 holiday season starts, we're looking forward to a more eventful and successful year.

